>> Brian Holt: Hopefully
this one was okay.
Just people here in the room,
who was able to solve it?
Yeah, mostly, no one?
Okay, okay, cool.
Just kidding.
[COUGH] We're gonna do iterative first in
terms of solving breadth versus traversal.
And then I will just go through and
just quickly show you as well how to do
recursive, if that's what you want to do.
So,
>> Brian Holt: What
we're gonna do
here,
>> Brian Holt: The way
this is gonna be passed into,
if I remember correctly,
is it's passed into with the root
node already in the queue, right?
>> Brian Holt: So what we're
gonna do here is we're gonna say,
while queue has length,
because as soon as it's empty,
then it'll stop the why loop,
because queue length will be zero,
that which is false.
It coerces to false anyway.
Then what we're gonna do is we're
gonna say const node = q.shift.
This is always a weird one, shift.
You might be familiar with push and pop,
those are probably more
common JavaScript operations.
Push you add something to
the beginning of the array, and
pop you will remove something
from the end of the array, right?
Well, JavaScript also has something
called shift and unshift,
which are doing it from
the beginning of the array.
I think they are the worst names,
but it's what we have.
So shift will take something off the front
of the array and return it to you,
whereas unshift, which is literally
the worst name I could think of,
will add something to
the beginning of the array.
It is what it is, it's what we got.
So we will call shift,
then what we're going to do is we're
gonna say array.push(node.value).
My friend here earlier asked,
what order do we do this in and
just to reiterate here?
It doesn't actually matter which order
that you're gonna do it in because
you're just gonna go through
another iteration eventually,
it doesn't matter if you add
the things first or not.
So, does it make more sense now?
Cool.
She's not ME so I feel okay.
[LAUGH] So, then we're gonna do,
if there is a left
node to process then we're gonna say,
if (node.left),
I can spell, queue.push(node.left),
and then we will do the same for
the right.
So if (node.right) and
queue.push(node.right).
This order does matter.
You have to do the left one first, right?
But everything else does not matter, okay?
And then you will just return the array.
>> Brian Holt: Now if you want to be
a little bit more defensive here,
which I was encouraged
defensive driving and
programming, you will say if queue or
queue.length.
If they don't give you a queue or
something like that then you just wanna
return array or something like that.
But in this particular case I'm not really
looking for edge cases but you'll see that
in the completed part so I just felt
like I should put it there for you.
We should probably see if that works.
>> Brian Holt: And it works.
So this is the iterative approach
to doing breadth first traversal.
This is the more efficient way, and
I would argue not too unreadable, right?
Pretty straightforward.
Usually when you're trading off iterative
versus recursive you're trading off for
readability, and usually the recursive
method is usually more readable.
That's usually why you
would select recursive or
you have to take advantage of
like recursive properties.
In this particular case,
it doesn't matter.
I think this is good.
This is the way that I
would choose to write it.
However, I did tell you that I
would show you how to do recursive,
which I have up here as well.
So const recursiveBFT
= (queue, array).
>> Brian Holt: So
the first thing you want to
do if (queue.length) then return array.
So, if I pass you an empty queue then
you just going to return array, right?
It follows, it is our base case, right?
Then here you're gonna say
const node = queue.shift,
and you say array.push(node.value).
(node.value).
>> Brian Holt: And
then you're gonna say if (node.left)
queue.push(node.left).
node.left.
>> Brian Holt: If (node.right)
queue.push(node.right) return recursive,
>> Brian Holt: queue.array.
>> Brian Holt: And
that should work as well.
Most loops can be rewritten
recursively this way.
>> Brian Holt: In fact, I would probably
argue this is even a little bit harder to
read than this one because it's just a lot
of cognitive overhead to picturing things
in a recursive way.
So this is how you'd write it, but
I would suggest that this is
the superior way of writing it in both.
Well, the performance profiles of these in
another language would be about the same,
because this is what's called a tail call,
right?
And you can do what's called
tail call optimization,
which technically should exist
in JavaScript, but doesn't.
That is a whole discussion for
another day.
You should definitely troll Kyle Simpson
about it on Twitter, he loves that.
[LAUGH] About what he thinks about
tail call optimization in JavaScript.
Nonetheless, it's tangential.
So any questions about
this before we move on?
>> Student: I'll go ahead and repeat
the question I had asked during the break.
And it does make more
sense now seeing the code.
But, sorry.
>> Brian Holt: You're okay.
>> Student: I asked if it's possible to
get out of sync if you're doing breadth
first traversal in a massive
Search tree where it would end up
processing a level deeper on the left
than on the right, for example.
>> Brian Holt: Well,
the nice thing about JavaScript,
that's a great question, by the way.
The nice thing about JavaScript
is it's single threaded.
So you're not processing these
in parallel at all, right?
So if you wrote this,
this is deterministic in the sense that
it's always going to run the same way,
no matter what.
And so if you write it like this,
it should never get out of sync
because you're always just
putting things into the queue.
And if you're always adding them
to the queue in the same order and
things like that, like, if I did like,
math dot random in here a bunch of times
then you can probably find
a way to get out of sync.
But no, it should work the same
way every single time.
Where you would run into problems,
perhaps in other languages,
if you're trying to concurrently
process these things.
But this is not the strategy that you
would employ to process it concurrently,
or rather, in parallel.
That's more what I mean.
Does that answer your question?
>> Student: Yes.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.